.TH AUTOJUMP 1 "2024-01-15" "autojump 22.5.3" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
autojump \- a faster way to navigate your file system from the command line
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B autojump
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.RI [ directory ]
.PP
.B j
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ query ]
.PP
.B jc
.I query
.PP
.B jo
.I query
.PP
.B jco
.I query
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B autojump
is a tool that enables fast directory navigation by maintaining a database of directories you access most frequently. It provides intelligent fuzzy matching, weighted directory sorting based on access frequency, and comprehensive cross-platform shell support.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-add PATH
Add a directory path to the database.
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-increase WEIGHT
Increase weight for current directory (default: 10).
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-decrease WEIGHT
Decrease weight for current directory (default: 15).
.TP
.B \-\-complete
Tab completion mode (used internally by shell scripts).
.TP
.B \-\-purge
Remove non-existent paths from the database.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-stat
Show database statistics (top 10 directories).
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show help message and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show version number and exit.
.SH SHELL COMMANDS
.TP
.B j QUERY
The core command used to quickly jump to a matching directory. Searches the database for directories matching the query and changes to the highest-weighted result.
.TP
.B jc QUERY
Variant of j that prefers child directories (subdirectories of the current directory).
.TP
.B jo QUERY
Opens the matching directory in your system's file manager instead of changing the shell directory.
.TP
.B jco QUERY
Combines jc and jo \- prefers child directories and opens them in the file manager.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B AUTOJUMP_PATH
Override the autojump installation path.
.TP
.B AUTOJUMP_DATA_FILE
Override the data file path.
.TP
.B AUTOJUMP_DEBUG
Set to 1 for debug output.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/autojump/autojump.txt
Default data file on Linux.
.TP
.I ~/Library/autojump/autojump.txt
Default data file on macOS.
.TP
.I %APPDATA%/autojump/autojump.txt
Default data file on Windows.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B j work
Jump to directory matching "work".
.TP
.B jc src
Jump to src subdirectory.
.TP
.B jo documents
Open documents in file manager.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR j (1),
.BR jc (1),
.BR jo (1),
.BR install.py (1),
.BR uninstall.py (1)
.SH AUTHOR
William Ting <wbting1@gmail.com> and the autojump community.
.SH LICENSE
MIT License.
